Well, thank you guys for taking time out of your day to be here today.
It's really great to see each one of you.
If you have your Bibles, we're gonna turn to Exodus chapter 15.
And I don't know if you guys have ever had a day that just didn't quite turn out exactly how you thought it was going to.
So, Tuesday, you know, I teach a small group.
It meets at 10 a.m. in the chapel.
And by the way, anybody is invited to that if you're able to make it.
We're studying Romans right now.
And I've been working on this message about the golden calves for, you know, quite a while.
I mean, at least for a week or so, I've been honing in on that thing, right?
And I had finally got it where I wanted it and I was about ready to try to create a PowerPoint out of it.
And I'm talking to my small group about idolatry and we're to all the things that are in that passage in Exodus and all of that.
And then on Tuesday or Wednesday, I send out a group
message to the small group leaders and I include some commentary on Exodus chapter 32 and all those things and some questions about the golden calf and then Pastor Tim comes in my office on Wednesday afternoon.
He's like, are you preaching on the golden calf on Sunday?
And I was like, yeah, I'm preaching on the golden calf on Sunday.
He's like, that's the wrong rent message.
And I was like, say what?
He's like, that's the wrong message.
That is at the end of October, you're preaching on the go.
So I had looked at the calendar wrong.
And so I had all that message in October is going to be awesome.
But this one today, it's going to be a little bit different.
So I'm really glad that you guys are here.
It kind of reminds me of a story I heard about an English explorer.
And he was taking part in an expedition to the Himalayas.
And he was led by this kind of grizzled old Sherpa.
And they ascended one of the less frequented peaks.
And about halfway up the side of the mountain, a member of the expedition came across a large set of man-like footprints in the snow.
And the Sherpas said, those are Yeti tracks.
And he said, one thing you must know before we proceed, he said, do not, under any circumstances, touch the Yeti.
Well, the expedition heated his warning and they continued to climb the slope.
The next night fell and the explorers set up their tents.
And in the dead of night, the Englishmen awoke and he saw half asleep.
He sees this enormous eight foot tall creature right outside his tent and fear for his life.
He jumps up.
He runs out of the tent.
He bangs into the eddy and the process, the eddy after being touched by the explorer,
Let out this deafening howl and began to chase the explorer down the slope.
Well, as you might imagine, this Englishman was running.
He ran down there as fast as he could.
He rounded a corner.
He looked behind him to see the Yeti was still chasing after him.
So he continued to run.
He reached the bottom of the mountain in just two days.
Exhausted.
He paused the rest a while.
And after a few moments, the explorer began to hear the soft, the, the, the, of Yeti feed on snow.
Sure enough, he looked up the slope and he sees the eddy is still chasing him.
Now, just moments away.
So the explorer he takes off again, he reaches a supply shack a couple of miles away.
Once there, he buys a mountain bike and he petals his way to the nearest town.
It's about 50 miles away.
The journey took him several days over all this rough terrain and all that.
Well, two days later, the man left his hotel and he seeks
about booking transport back to England.
And as soon as he turns around, though he saw the form of the Eddy on the horizon, bounding towards him at great speed, horrified, terrified at the sight of this eight foot tall Eddy.
The explorer hurriedly bought a car and he drove it away from the village all the way to Delhi.
Once he arrived, the man wasted no time.
He got on the next plane to London.
After his arrival in London, the man goes back home for a while to recover.
kind of planned his next expedition.
He'd been there really less than two weeks and he was gazing out a window when he saw, you guessed it, this familiar eight foot tall man like creature running down his street.
The man just could not believe it, somehow the Yeti had followed him to England.
The man had a little choice but to run away so he used any means he could.
I mean he got used to bike, a car, he used his feet to try to escape the Yeti
Each time he looked behind him it was just moments away.
Eventually the man made it all the way to Edinburgh and from there they ran and he ran into the Scottish countryside.
He continued to run but the Yeti just kept getting closer and closer and in the end the man could run no more.
With the Yeti less than a minute away from him and the man finally stops, turns around to face the oncoming creature with all the strength that he could muster as the Yeti caught up with him
He yelled at the Yeti to try to scare it away, but the Yeti towered over the man, stuck his hand out, touched the man and said, tag, you're it.
Listen, sometimes the day don't turn out exactly the way we expected it to.
And then this passage in Exodus chapter 15, right?
The Exodus works for us on a lot of different levels.
Right?
The Exodus works on us because it did actually happen.
And I want to remind you that some scholars believe there were close to 3 million Jews in the Exodus.
A lot of the passages that you read in the Bible tells about the number of men, but it doesn't tell the number of women and children.
And so a lot of people think there were some 3 million people that Moses is leading.
But think about the Exodus for a minute.
You have a people who are in bondage, right?
They're slaves.
What does God do?
He raises up a mediator between him and the people.
That man is Moses.
Moses goes, tells Pharaoh to let his people go.
God performs all kinds of signs and wonders, not only to punish the Egyptians, or maybe not even primarily to punish the Egyptians.
But every play corresponded to an Egyptian God.
And so God, in every one of those plays, was saying, I am the one true God.
I am more powerful than this God, than this God, than this God.
And God just set him up and he knocked him down.
And then he leads people out.
And lo and behold, they come to the sea, to the water.
And then what does God do?
He parts the water.
He leads 3 million people through the water.
on their way to the Promised Land.
Sound familiar?
On their way to the Promised Land.
Now we've picked up where they've just come through the Red Sea, right?
And this is exactly what God does with us, right?
He takes us from a place of bondage.
The Bible tells us that we're enslaved to sin.
He has sent a mediator in Jesus Christ.
Jesus leads us through the baptismal waters.
We come out the other side of the water and we're on our way to the Promised Land.
We get hiccups along the way.
We get messed up.
We get misdirected along the way.
We find up in wilderness.
Now the wilderness is a very rich symbol in the scripture.
I flew from Uganda to Istanbul when I was on my way back from Africa and we flew
the exact route all the way north that followed the Nile River and you could look out the window and you could see the Nile River and on each side of the Nile there was some green there but everything else was nothing but sand and dirt and you could see it just nothing could live out there it was plain right so when the Bible talks about the wilderness in your mind's eye
Don't think about the wilderness that we live in and see every day.
It's more like the Sahara Desert kind of wilderness.
But the wilderness serves a lot of points.
It serves a lot of purposes.
And one of the purposes that it serves is the wilderness, what God teaches us through those symbols is a dangerous place.
It's a place where we often feel alone.
It's a place where we find ourselves and think about Jesus when he was tempted.
Where did he go?
He went to the wilderness.
Right, all through scripture, you find people having to spend time in the wilderness.
And here, Moses has led these people out and they have crossed the Red Sea and they find themselves in this desert wilderness.
And so we're gonna pick up, now they've just, this has just happened where they've crossed through the Red Sea and stuff.
And Exodus chapter 15 starts out with this great song of praise.
It says, I will sing to the Lord.
For he has triumphed gloriously, though the horse and his rider, he is thrown into the sea.
The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation.
This is my God, and I will praise him, my Father's God, and I will exalt him.
The Lord is a man of war.
The Lord is his name.
He goes on again in verses 11 through 13.
He says, who is like you, O Lord, among the gods?
Who is like you, majestic in holiness?
awesome and glorious deeds doing wonders.
You stretched out your right hand.
The earth swallowed them.
You have led in your steadfast love the people whom you have redeemed.
You have guided them by your strength and by your holy abode.
And so we find that they're on the mountaintop, you know spiritually, right?
They're in Canaan, which is the Promised Land spiritually.
They're excited.
They've seen God do this amazing, fantastic thing where they cross the Red Sea.
and God has done miracle after miracle after miracle.
And then they find themselves less than three days later or around three days later and they're in the wilderness.
And they're suffering from a lot of great things.
Let's read this passage.
Our passage today is verses 22 through 27 of Exodus 15.
Then Moses made Israel set out from the Red Sea
and they went into the wilderness of sure.
Now again, it's a desert.
They went three days in the wilderness and found no water.
When they came to Mara, they could not drink the water of Mara because it was bitter, therefore it was named Mara.
And the people grumbled against Moses saying, what shall we drink?
Then he cried to the Lord and the Lord showed him a log and he threw it in the water and the water became sweet.
There the Lord made for them a statute and a rule.
And there he tested them saying, if you will diligently listen to the voice of the Lord your God and do that, which is right in his eyes and give ear to his commandments and keep all his statutes, I will put none of the diseases on you that I put on the Egyptians for I am the Lord your healer.
Then they came to Elam where there were 12 springs of water and 70 palm sprint trees.
and they encamp there by the water.
And the rest of the book of Exodus is this story of wilderness wandering.
They spend a whole year or more out there and they're wandering around and there's patterns that we see that keep repeating themselves over and over and over again.
And I want you to think about how these patterns repeat in our own lives over and over and over again because they do.
That's the point that Jesus is trying to make.
That's the point that we have with the story.
here today.
So they're on their way to the mountain.
They're on their way to Sinai.
And while they're on their way to Sinai, they have four crises that occur.
They have a lack of drinking water.
That's in chapter 15.
That's what we just read about.
There's a further lack of water when we come to Exodus 17.
Then there is this sudden unprovoked act of aggression in chapter 17.
Later on in chapter 17, we learned that there also is a shortage of food.
And in these particular trials that Israel endures, one can discern that there are four major elements.
Now listen, what really is happening here is when we see that they struggle with the lack of food, when we see that they struggle with the lack of water, when we see that they struggle with enemies,
What's really, you know, but one of the things that psychologists say that is at the core of something that every single human on the planet is worried about is from whom or where do I find security?
I mean, if you find yourself in a place with a lack of food and you find yourself in a place with a lack of water and you find yourself with enemies chasing you, you wonder about your own security.
And throughout human history, we've seen tragedies after tragedies after tragedies occur when a group of people start to worry about their security.
And then they're led to really sometimes terrible acts, sometimes they're led to good things that they do.
But when we start to feel something threaten our security, then that gets to the very core of who is going to provide for me.
who is going to take care of me.
It's something that in our lives we think about over and over and over again, time and time and time again.
And this is where the Israelites are.
They've come out here into a place where God has done all these fantastic things that they have witnessed with their own two eyes.
And yet they come to this place where for the first major time, their security is being threatened.
Now we see that there are lots of elements here.
The children of Israel journey.
That's the first element.
Then they run into a need and they respond to it by murmuring, right?
That's just or griping, right?
That's something that I mean, one of the things it's like for me that's like, you know, using your nails to scratch a chalkboard is when I have to listen to people complain over and over and over and over and over again.
You know, and I be guilty of it myself, but
My dad used to, he would quash it right at the beginning, like first complete, first sin inside of my mouth.
If it sounded like I was about to complain, he'd just be like, I don't want to hear it.
Don't say it.
Don't talk to me about it.
I don't want to hear it.
So kind of carried over, I guess.
But here, can you imagine Moses is out here and 3 million people are grumbling at this man?
I mean, he's got to be thinking, Lord, why me?
What did you call me out here for?
The thirdly, they face God's judgment.
Then fourthly, they generally repent.
Fifthly, they intercede and beg God to intercede for them.
And then sixthly, there is deliverance.
Now in the first four stories that we're going to look at prior to Mount Sinai, you recognize immediately, right?
The elements three and four of judgment and repentance are absent.
They're not there.
They don't get judged here.
And then there is no, there is no repentance here.
And this is not because God is pleased with them.
Okay, this is not because God is pleased with the way that they have behaved.
It's not because the children of Israel don't need to repent.
Because in these first four stories, it is abundantly clear that it is only the grace of God that has delivered the children of Israel out of Egypt and over the cross the Red Sea, but it's gonna be the grace of God.
that preserves Israel in the wilderness.
And remember, this is pre the law.
They haven't made it to Sinai yet.
Moses has not gone up Mount Sinai yet and had his encounter with God and come down with the Ten Commandments.
And yet still, God is dealing with them in grace.
So you see, grace is not a new doctrine.
Jesus did not come to introduce grace, although he was the perfect example of grace.
And the New Testament talks more about grace than it does almost any other subject.
But God was showing grace and mercy to his people every step of the way, all along the way.
Even when they were in slavery, he was dealt with them in grace.
Now he deals with, they crossed the baptismal waters of the Red Sea, and now they find themselves in a wilderness, and God is still dealing with them with grace.
He wants them to get it, that it's about grace.
And so they wind up at this dry and waterless wilderness.
And it's anything but what they were expecting.
You know, sometimes it feels like we jump out of an airplane without a parachute.
Life, life does that to us.
You know, I heard about a boy scout and two other passengers and they were flying in a small plane at 5,000 feet and the pilot comes out of the cockpit and he's absolutely in a panic.
The pilot says, I'm sorry, but this plane is going to crash.
We only have three parachutes.
He says, I've got four young children.
So I'm taking one of the parachutes.
He says, good luck to you guys figuring out which of the three are going to get the other two parachutes.
Well, the boy scout says you guys go ahead.
You know, it's my good turn for the day to sacrifice my life.
The first passenger says, well, son, I'm way smarter with a really nice prideful attitude.
I'm way smarter than anyone on this plane.
In fact, I'm a genius.
So the most important thing is that I live, and he straps it on, jumps out of the plane.
The next passenger is an elderly man, and he says, I've lived a full life.
He says, son, you have your whole life before you.
So seriously, he says, you should take that parachute.
The boy scout said, that's OK, sir.
We're both going to be fine.
The genius took my backpack.
Listen, sometimes we find, sometimes we feel like God is asking us to jump out of an airplane without a parachute, right?
And God is saying to, you know, God is saying when we find ourselves in this wilderness place, when we find ourselves in this kind of difficulty, God is saying, listen, I never give up on you.
I will never leave you.
I will never forsake you.
I will never turn from you.
I will be with you.
No matter where you go, I will never, ever, ever,
give up on you.
So Israel journeys to Elam where there's 12 springs of water and 70 date palms and they camp there beside the waters.
You know, one of God's purposes with Israel and the wilderness, as we've said, is God wanted to teach Israel to live by grace.
Now, you know, I think that, hey, grace is easy street.
You know, grace is an easy way to live, but it's not.
It's not.
Living by grace means living in total dependence upon the provision of God.
When your security feels threatened, it is throwing your lot, casting your lot with God and saying, God, you are my deliverer, you are my savior, you are my master, you are the creator of heaven and earth.
Lord, only you can save me from this situation is to live in complete dependence upon God.
And sometimes God knows that.
And He highlights our need in order to teach us about how we should live in complete dependence on Him.
You see, God doesn't all of us in this room are going to have to spend time in the wilderness.
In the scripture, almost every major character had to spend time in the wilderness.
And I don't know what the wilderness looks like for you.
It could be sickness, it could be disease.
It could be relationship problems.
It could be money problems.
It could be career problems.
It could be joblessness.
It could be any number of things.
But every single person in this room is going to have to spend time in the wilderness.
And we don't always spend time in the wilderness as a result of our sin.
Sometimes God leads us into the wilderness because He wants to show us His amazing grace.
And that's what He's done here.
He knows what he's doing with us.
Living by grace means having a bold and having an active faith in God's word and God's provision.
It is trusting him and accepting his providence is good and wise, even it may be most especially when we can't figure it out.
We can't sort through it ourselves.
You know, one of the, one of the things God consistently wants to do in your life and he wants to do in my life is he wants to ask you to do something that you think is impossible in your flesh so that if you say, yes, Lord, and I will do it, then he will deliver you and you'll have no question that it was him who did it because that increases our faith.
Look what Matthew Henry said here.
He said,
Extraordinary afflictions are not always the punishment for extraordinary sins, but sometimes the trial of extraordinary graces.
I mean, that's an incredibly powerful statement.
You know, let me read that again.
Extraordinary afflictions are not always the punishment for extraordinary sins, but sometimes the trial of extraordinary graces.
Amen.
And so God,
So the Lord puts his people to the test in the wilderness.
He wants to humble them.
He wants to teach them to live by grace.
My friend, when you find yourself in the wilderness, this is exactly what God wants to do with you too.
He wants to humble us.
He wants to teach us to live by grace.
The Israelites didn't want to live by grace.
They wanted to live by sight.
They didn't want to live by faith.
And so they rebelled.
against the good leading of God and they refused to recognize him as their king, right?
And the surprising thing, the thing that strikes you about these stories prior to Sinai is how God is so tender in his response to their rebellion.
I mean, God gets us, which is a good thing.
He knows that we are but dust, right?
He knows
that we struggle.
He knows that we don't see all of the things that he is doing.
He knows that we lack wisdom.
He knows that we don't get the full picture and yet he offers to walk with us hand in hand side by side whether we find ourselves in the promised land of Canaan where everything is going fantastic or whether we find ourselves in the wilderness without a compass and we don't think we're going to be able to make it back to the land where things flourish.
And so we learn in this passage that difficulty visits all of us.
It talks about it in verse 22 and 23.
It also talks about faithlessness.
Faithlessness in verse 24.
And then it talks about grace in verses 25 through 27.
And so in verses 22 and 23, Israel finds herself in real difficulty.
I mean, their situation is dire to say the least.
I mean, imagine we see these names like sure and Mara and Elam in the three days.
All of those tip us off that Israel is in the wilderness now.
They had just been singing and praising God for 20 something verses.
And now just three days later, they're murmuring and grumbling and thinking that God has brought them all out there to die.
It's really
You know, we find in verse 22, a strange phrase that says, then Moses led Israel from the Red Sea.
That passage would really better literally be translated.
Moses caused Israel to set out.
And what does that, what does that mean?
That means that Moses is saying, get up and get going folks.
That's what he is.
People of Israel are saying, we don't want to go.
We don't want to go.
We're going to either go back to Egypt or we're going to stay here and die.
And Moses is not just like Moses sets out and starts walking towards the water, right?
Moses caused them to leave, carries the idea that he had to drag those three million people to get them to move.
Can you imagine?
It's like herding cats, right?
He calls Israel to leave.
The name sure in verse 22 means wall.
The Egyptians had built a wall
on their eastern border, the Delta of the Nile, and they had built fortifications there.
And here these guys go and they set out.
I mean, think about putting yourselves in their shoes.
They wouldn't have had much with which to keep a large supply of water at all.
I mean, they had left with the clothes on their back pretty much.
They would have been short-term dependent on supplies of water.
And like I said, they're in a desert where water is awful, hard to find.
The bitterness plays on a couple of levels.
Some scholars say the bitterness could mean that the waters there at Mara were poisoned.
Other scholars say, no, it just means that the water was undrinkable, but it also reflects the attitude of the Israelites.
They were bitter.
They were mad.
They felt like God had not kept his end of the bargain up, and they were upset about it.
Now listen, a lot of us, when we're in the wilderness, are tempted to become bitter towards God.
And we have to be cautious not to allow that to happen in our lives.
Because even when we're in the wilderness, right, God is still good.
He is still faithful.
He still deals with us with mercy and with hope and with grace.
And so we can't allow ourselves to become more and more and more better.
But just imagine yourself as a mother and here you are in the wilderness in the heat of the wilderness and you found no water for your babies for three days.
The supplies that you had out there were exhausted and you fear the grief of watching your children dehydrate and die right before your very eyes.
I mean, this is a real
place that Israel finds itself.
And so the children of Israel have come to believe that our Exodus is going to end with all of us dying out here in the wilderness.
And so there is this within the shadow of great national victory comes a real trial and it breaks Israel's spirit.
Do you ever notice that one of the times that Satan most wants to attack you is right after you've had some kind of spiritual victory in your life?
You know, the Israelites have just had this amazing spiritual victory and now Satan is coming in to sow seeds of doubt about God's goodness, seeds of doubt about God's provision.
Really, he's sowing seeds of doubt about their security because he knows that one of the surest ways to get us to panic and make poor decisions is when we start to doubt our own security.
God deals with us personally, right?
It is through the power of God that we are able to get through things that we never thought we could possibly get through.
And God is teaching us all along the way.
And so here we see that this cycle is going to repeat itself over and over and over again.
And isn't that what happens in our lives?
We waver from the promised land, the land of Pliny out into the wilderness where it's hard to live, where things are dangerous.
and where bitterness can creep in.
And then God pulls us back to the land of Pliny.
But then eventually we go back to the wilderness and then God pulls us and we go back and He pulls us again.
It is a pattern of the Christian life right here in this story of the Exodus.
So how did the children of Israel respond?
Well, they responded with faithless rebellion.
Right?
We see this faith failure in Israel.
We've been told in chapter 15 that the children of Israel believed God because of what he had done to the Egyptians, but now they're believed falters.
They find themselves in a dry, barren, hard to live place in their faith falters.
C.S.
Lewis famously said, God whispers to us in our pleasures.
He speaks in our conscience.
He shouts in our pain.
It is his megaphone to rouse a deaf world.
That is so true, right?
We learn more lessons when we're in the wilderness oftentimes than we learn when we're in the land of plenty.
Those lifelong lessons that build up strength and build up our faith and build up our hope so that the next time we face lessons like that, the next time we face situations like that,
We've learned that God is going to do this for me because he has done it in the past.
He has never let me down and he's never going to.
And so I may look hopeless now.
I may not be able to find water now, but I believe you God that you're going to come through.
I believe you God because you've done it in the past and you're faithful and you never change.
And I know that you're going to do it in the future.
The opening verb of verse 24 says, so the people grumbled at Moses.
That's not the language that you want to hear.
This is the first time that the verb grumble or murmur appears in the Old Testament, but it reappears over and over and over and over again for the people of Israel.
In every instance, it portrays that rebellious attitude of the Israelites that they had against their leaders.
against the God appointed authority structures and even against God himself.
It becomes, in fact, the dominant negative theme throughout the entire Exodus.
Now Paul, in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, Paul says, he tells us to use this as an example of what not to do.
He says, well, I do not want you to be unaware brothers that our fathers were all under the cloud.
and all passed through the sea, and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud, in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink.
Drink, drink.
That was Texas.
For they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ.
Nevertheless, with most of them, God was not pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness.
The wilderness defeated them, a lot of them.
Now these things took place as examples for us that we might not desire evil as they did.
Do not be idolators as some of them were.
As it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.
And then in verse 11, it says, now these things happen to them as an example, but they were written down for our instruction on whom the end of the ages has come.
And so Paul says, don't be like them.
My grandfather was a, he was an absolute pushover.
I mean, man, if I asked that guy anything, he melted like butter.
He might give up a little bit of resistance, you know, where he might say no at first, but then he would come back to him in a minute and say, you know, are you, can we please, please, please, please, please do whatever this thing is?
And you could just see him melt right before your eyes and you knew like, he's going to take me to do that.
He can't stand it.
One of the things my grandfather told me is that the thing I learned from my dad was how not to be like my dad because his dad was the polar opposite.
And here Paul is saying the thing that we can learn from all that murmuring and all that grumbling and all that complaining out there and the wilderness and all that faithlessness is to not be like that.
Don't let those things creep into your life.
Don't let those things get in there and cause you to walk away.
from God.
Look at the example of them and don't do that.
So the people just grumble and they confront Moses and they blame him, even though their need is very real.
And Israel's faith is being tested in their circumstances, right?
And it's found to be weak.
And it makes me ask, you know, how is my faith doing?
How is your faith doing?
What circumstances do you find yourself in?
And are you displaying the weakness of faith?
Or are you taking the opportunity to grow in your wilderness wondering?
I mean, maybe you've been drawn away from the Lord by something right now and your faith is faltering.
But that thing that draws you away feels more tangible, more real, more satisfying than the promises that He's made to you.
It did to the Israelites.
Maybe you're going through a hard trial right now, a physical trial.
Maybe it's a trial in your own body or it's a trial in the body of somebody that you love and you feel like there's no hope.
There's no water.
You feel like you're in the wilderness.
Well, fortunately God gives us some remedies for this.
I don't know why that's on there.
Hebrews chapter
Hebrews chapter three, verses seven through 15 says, so as the Holy Spirit says, today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as you did in the rebellion.
During the time of testing in the desert where your father's tested and tried me for 40 years, they saw what I did.
That's why I was angry with that generation.
And I said, their hearts are always going astray and they have known my ways.
So I declared on oath in my anger, they shall never enter my rest.
See to it, brothers, that none of you has a sinful, unbelieving heart that turns away from the living God.
And how does he tell us to do that?
He says, encourage one another daily.
This is why we need Christian companionship, Christian friendship.
This is why it's important if you're physically able to be in church because we need people to encourage us or else we're prone to walk away and become faithless.
He says, encourage one other daily as long as it is called today so that none of you may be hardened by sins deceitfulness.
We have come to share in Christ if we hold firmly till the end, the confidence we had at first.
As has just been said today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as you did in the rebellion.
I mean, I believe that God is speaking to somebody here today whose heart has been hardened by rebellion.
or who feels like they've been in the wilderness.
And I want to encourage you in Hebrews chapter four, verses one, and then eight, verses 10, it says, it says, therefore, since the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us be careful that none of you be found to have fallen short of it.
For if Joshua, whose name is Jesus, had given them rest, God would not have spoken later about another day.
There remains then a Sabbath rest for the people of God, for anyone who enters God rest, also rests from his own work, just as God did from his.
Let us therefore make every effort to enter that rest, so that no one will fall by following their example of disobedience.
The question is, when you find yourself in the wilderness, will you take a step forward, or will you go back?
And the Israelites had this incredible opportunity.
God had promised them that He was taking them to a land that was going to be theirs.
Now they have encountered the first of many, many, many difficulties that they're going to encounter on the way to that promised land, just like in our own lives.
We're on our way to the promised land.
The promised land is already in our hearts.
But we still encounter difficulty after difficulty after difficulty in this life.
And Satan says comes in and he says, you just need to stop.
Just stop where you are.
Don't move.
And God is saying, take one more step, take one more step, take one more step.
The remedies, right?
Remember, you are led by Jesus.
There is no mistake here that Joshua's name means Jesus.
One way to know for sure that you're full of the Spirit of God is that you were led by the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
And what that means is every day, in every important step I take in my life, I consider Jesus, what is it that you want me to do?
What is it that is the right thing to do?
It may not be the easy thing, we all understand that the right thing is often not the easy thing,
Sometimes the right thing is the hardest thing you can do.
But we ask ourselves, what does Jesus want me to do?
We say to Jesus, how do you want me to follow you in this situation?
That's right, you can go ahead and begin to pass out the elements.
And you need to remember that you have victory in Jesus.
You have victory in Jesus.
Eventually they get to that promised land.
They had battle after battle after battle after battle but they had victory after victory after victory after victory right when we sing that old song victory in Jesus it reminds us that we have victory in Jesus that same power God says that raised Jesus from the dead is within me and is within you right now and what God wants me to do is say God
You're going to have to fight this for me in your power and in your strength because I have come to the end of what it is that I can do.
You know, one sure sign that you're serving God is you get resistance, right?
If you don't ever serve in the Lord, then Satan doesn't need to really bother you a lot because you're doing the work for him.
But when you start to step out in faith, then he starts to get nervous.
And you start to find that more and more obstacles sometimes come up, more and more difficulty sometimes come up.
And that's because you're moving in the direction that God wants you to move in.
The only time you can have victory is when you have a battle.
So we battle Satan and we battle our culture and the spirit that's in the world.
But we have victory in Jesus.
We need to remember that we are indwelled by Jesus.
He in Thomas' book, The Saving Life of Christ, he says this.
He says, at the age of 19 training at London University to become a doctor in order to serve as a missionary in Africa, I knew my life as a Christian was ineffective.
I did not know one single soul whom it had been my privilege to lead to Christ.
I engaged in more than my fair share of Christian activities and with genuine enthusiasm, but I knew that if I ever went as a missionary to Africa, I would be just as useless there.
It was out of a deep sense of need that I despaired of my Christian life, that I had made the startling discovery that for seven years, I had missed the whole point of my salvation.
That Christ had not died just to save me from hell and one day to get me into heaven,
but that I might become available to Him for Him to live His life through me.
That is the gospel, my friends.
I want to be available so that Jesus can live His life through me.
You want to be available so that Jesus can live His life through you.
He writes it was as if Jesus said to me for seven years with almost utter sincerity, you've been trying to live for me on my
life that I have been waiting for seven, but I have been waiting for seven years to live through you.
God gave me nothing new.
He said I had simply discovered what I already had in Christ and all of his fullness living in me.
The sad thing is that it is all too possible to become accustomed to living in the wilderness, especially when you're surrounded by wilderness Christians.
Listen, wherever you're at today,
If you find yourself in the wilderness, we're gonna take the Lord's Supper, and then we're gonna play a closing song, and the altar is open here to pray, or pray in your seat, and say, God, lead me out of this wilderness that I've been in.
I wanna declare my total and complete dependence in you, my faithfulness to you, lead me God to a place of goodness again.
The last thing that we see is that there is truth that we're gonna rest in Jesus.
In Matthew 29 and 30, he says, coming to me, all you who labor, and I will give you rest.
Right, we're all busier than we've ever been.
The difference, however, is that we are yoked with Jesus now, instead of out there in the wilderness, trying to do it all on our own.
Ruth Paxton, a great Christian poet, wrote this, they came to the gates of Canaan, but they never entered in.
They came to the very threshold, but they perished in their sin.
So we are always coming to the place where the two ways part, one leads to the land of promise and the other to a hardened heart.
So I just want to encourage you to bow and do business with God.
If you find yourself in the wilderness and you need somebody to pray with, then grab somebody and pray with them.
Come grab me, grab
You know, an elder, grab one of your friend, whatever, and do the business with God that God has called you here to this place to do.
It's not an accident that you're here on September the 28th.
He called you here.
He called me here because he wants to do business with me.
He called you here because he wants to do business with you.
So I'm going to give you just a moment and then we're going to take the elements of the Lord's Supper.